UNPROVABILITY IN MACHINE LEARNING

Learning a predictor -mathematical function-  is formalised to correctly approximate PAC learning model, 
with the aim to to train the predictor to exactly match a certain function labeling the data. 

The online learning model makes instantaneous predictions as data arrive capturing a trading system task 
of executing transactions in an ever-changing market.  

A learning model called estimating the maximum (EMX) is relating learnability to complexity, discovering a 
family of functions whose learnability in EMX is unprovable in standard mathematics.     

The creators formalized EMX as a question about a learner’s ability to find a function, from a given family 
to be as big as possible, this action brought unprovability into the picture as the family must have low 
complexity, and therefore be learnable. 

However, the weak form of monotone compression used is related to the size of certain infinite sets.

ML learnability can be an undecidable problem, we should be careful when introducing new models of learning 
and check already adopted models for unprovability may already be in some of them. 



EXPENSIVE COMPUTATIONAL POWER

Computational power requirements have increased in all domains of deep learning, sounding the alarms because 
computing power is its core to achieve deep learning improvement.   

The very flexibility advantages also makes it dramatically more computationally expensive.

This reliance on computational power demonstrates that soon it will be impossible to sustain the rapid financial 
and technical demands it imposes.  

We urgently need new computational-efficient methods altogether. 
 


ON LINEAR EQUATIONS

Given a multi-layer neural network with linear activation functions is equivalent to one single layer of neurons, 
the nonlinearity of activated functions that makes each layer increase in complexity.

This in effect makes the network system a universal computing machine capable of approximating continuous functions. 
It is this added complexity that current narrow AI cannot process efficiently.
